SEP-2468: Recommend Issuer (iss) Parameter in MCP Auth Responses (#2468)
modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol: docs/specification/draft/basic/authorization.mdx

        Note over C: Use existing client_id
    end

    Note over C: Generate PKCE parameters<br/>Include resource parameter<br/>Apply scope selection strategy<br/>Record expected issuer
    C->>B: Open browser with authorization URL + code_challenge + resource
    B->>A: Authorization request with resource parameter
    Note over A: User authorizes
    A->>B: Redirect to callback with authorization code + iss
    B->>C: Authorization code callback
    Note over C: Validate iss against recorded issuer (RFC 9207)
    C->>A: Token request + code_verifier + resource
    A->>C: Access token (+ refresh token)
    C->>M: MCP request with access token
    M-->>C: MCP response
    Note over C,M: MCP communication continues with valid token
```

### Authorization Response Validation

> Before redirecting the user-agent, the client **MUST** record the `issuer` value from the selected authorization server's metadata document ([RFC8414](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8414) or OpenID Connect Discovery) and associate it with the request's `state` value, alongside the PKCE code verifier.

Reviewer: I think the spec should emphasize that the MCP client MUST verify that the issuer value fetched from the metadata document is authentic, by validating it per [RFC8414 Section 3.3](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8414#section-3.3) / [OpenID Connect Discovery Section 4.3](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfigurationValidation).

> 3.3 Authorization Server Metadata Validation
> The "issuer" value returned MUST be identical to the authorization
   server's issuer identifier value into which the well-known URI string
   was inserted to create the URL used to retrieve the metadata.  If
   these values are not identical, the data contained in the response
   MUST NOT be used.

> 4.3.  OpenID Provider Configuration Validation
> The issuer value returned MUST be identical to the Issuer URL that was used as the prefix to /.well-known/openid-configuration to retrieve the configuration information.

This ensures that the stored `iss` value can be trusted: an attacker cannot simply claim `"issuer": "https://accounts.google.com"` in `https://attacker.com/.well-known/oauth-authorization-server`, thereby causing the client to store a forged issuer value and re-enabling mix-up attacks.

Reviewer 2: yea that's a good call out, maybe a normative example would be useful

Reviewer 3: This would be great in the `4 Authorization Server Discovery` section

Reviewer 2: Added a note in this commit:
https://github.com/modelcontextprotocol/modelcontextprotocol/pull/2468/changes/fb8eac2bf6f3869a5733a09601e27f8423d8f118

please feel free to wordsmith

On receiving the authorization response, MCP clients **MUST** apply the validation in [RFC9207 Section 2.4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9207#section-2.4) before transmitting the authorization code to any token endpoint:

| `authorization_response_iss_parameter_supported` | `iss` in response | Client action                                                                              |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `true`                                           | present           | Compare to the recorded issuer using simple string comparison ([RFC3986 Section 6.2.1][1]) |
| `true`                                           | absent            | Reject the response                                                                        |

> | `false` or absent                                | present           | Compare to the recorded issuer using simple string comparison ([RFC3986 Section 6.2.1][1]) |

Reviewer 3: This isn't the behavior recommended in [9207](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9207#section-2.4:~:text=Clients%20SHOULD%20discard%20authorization%20responses%20with%20the%20iss%20parameter%20from%20authorization%20servers%20that%20do%20not%20indicate%20their%20support%20for%20the%20parameter.)

> Clients SHOULD discard authorization responses with the iss parameter from authorization servers that do not indicate their support for the parameter.

Do we have a strong reason for deviating from the SHOULD?

Reviewer 2: I see it as filling in the noted "out of scope guidance" listed below that sentence:
> Clients SHOULD discard authorization responses with the iss parameter from authorization servers that do not indicate their support for the parameter. **However, there might be legitimate authorization servers that provide the iss parameter without indicating their support in their metadata. Local policy or configuration can determine whether to accept such responses, and specific guidance is out of scope for this specification**.

In the experience working with folks AS metadata via PRM and OASM, changing those files can be finicky and slow where I think adding the `iss` parameter can be faster.  I only see this "failing closed", i.e. causing more servers to be rejected than otherwise, so this seems to be only a tightening and means we can get the protection in more places more quickly by only requiring 1 change (the parameter) rather than 2 (parameter + metadata).

I haven't dug deeply into the history of that SHOULD though, so it's worth us seeing if we can find the reasoning there.

Reviewer 2: dug into this and I'm now confident the deviation is net positive, but you're right we should be explicit about it. I've updated the PR and SEP to call it out:

- The truth table now has a note that the third row is invoking the local-policy provision §2.4 explicitly leaves open ("specific guidance is out of scope")
- The SEP's "alternatives considered" section now documents why we're not following the SHOULD literally

The short version of the digging: the SHOULD-discard sentence was a late, lightly-debated addition to RFC 9207. it doesn't appear in the original individual draft (which left this to local policy explicitly) and shows up in WG -01 as an unattributed "incorporated WG feedback" change. The one thing the security argument genuinely depends on is that the recorded issuer always comes from a trusted source, which we get for free since RFC 9728 PRM + RFC 8414 metadata validation is already required upstream in the spec.

Other notes:
- FAPI 2.0 (final, Feb 2025) drops the metadata-conditional logic entirely and makes iss validation an unconditional shall on both sides — same posture we're taking
- panva's oauth4webapi / openid-client (the library NextAuth and much of the JS ecosystem use) already implements this rule (i.e. process parameter regardless of metadata presence). This came up with Github's `iss` rollout: https://github.com/orgs/community/discussions/192143  -- specifically some configs of that library didn't fetch metadata and required `issuer` to be passed in to validate, which caused problems.  That's the same issue noted in the backcompat section of the SEP (i.e. if you upgrade, but don't plumb `issuer` through from your metadata, you'll have an issue)

        Note over C: Use existing client_id
    end

    Note over C: Generate PKCE parameters<br/>Include resource parameter<br/>Apply scope selection strategy<br/>Record expected issuer
    C->>B: Open browser with authorization URL + code_challenge + resource
    B->>A: Authorization request with resource parameter
    Note over A: User authorizes
    A->>B: Redirect to callback with authorization code + iss
    B->>C: Authorization code callback
    Note over C: Validate iss against recorded issuer (RFC 9207)
    C->>A: Token request + code_verifier + resource
    A->>C: Access token (+ refresh token)
    C->>M: MCP request with access token
    M-->>C: MCP response
    Note over C,M: MCP communication continues with valid token
```

### Authorization Response Validation

> Before redirecting the user-agent, the client **MUST** record the `issuer` value from the selected authorization server's validated metadata document (see [Authorization Server Metadata Discovery](#authorization-server-metadata-discovery)) and associate it with the request's `state` value, alongside the PKCE code verifier. The validation in this section depends on that recorded value being authentic; it provides no protection if the expected issuer was obtained from an unvalidated source.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Before redirecting the user-agent, the client **MUST** record the `issuer` value from the selected authorization server's validated metadata document (see [Authorization Server Metadata Discovery](#authorization-server-metadata-discovery)) and associate it with the same per-request record used to store the PKCE code verifier (and the `state` value, if used). The validation in this section depends on that recorded value being authentic; it provides no protection if the expected issuer was obtained from an unvalidated source.
```

> MCP authorization servers **SHOULD** include the `iss` parameter in authorization responses, including error responses, as defined in [RFC9207 Section 2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9207#section-2), and advertise this by setting `authorization_response_iss_parameter_supported` to `true` in their metadata.

Reviewer 4: Let's split the sentence - keep **SHOULD** for inclusion and then mention that authorization servers that include `iss` MUST set `authorization_response_iss_parameter_supported: true` per the RFC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MCP authorization servers **SHOULD** include the `iss` parameter in authorization responses, including error responses as defined in [RFC9207 Section 2](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9207#section-2). Authorization servers that include the `iss` parameter MUST advertise this by setting `authorization_response_iss_parameter_supported` to `true` in their metadata ([RFC9207 2.3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9207#section-2.3)).
```

| `true`                                           | present           | Compare to the recorded issuer using simple string comparison ([RFC3986 Section 6.2.1][1]) |
| `true`                                           | absent            | Reject the response                                                                        |
| `false` or absent                                | present           | Compare to the recorded issuer using simple string comparison ([RFC3986 Section 6.2.1][1]) |
| `false` or absent                                | absent            | Proceed                                                                                    |

[1]: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986#section-6.2.1

The third row applies the local-policy provision in [RFC9207 Section 2.4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9207#section-2.4): this specification compares a present `iss` against the recorded issuer regardless of metadata advertisement, to accommodate authorization servers that emit `iss` before updating their metadata.

> A future revision of this specification is expected to upgrade authorization server inclusion of `iss` from **SHOULD** to **MUST**, at which point clients **MUST** reject any authorization response that lacks the parameter. Implementers are encouraged to emit and validate `iss` now to ease that transition.

Reviewer 4: nit: bold **MUST** here reads as a current normative requirement, but it describes future behavior with no runtime trigger (the AS does not negotiate MCP spec versions). Suggest keeping the server-side signal and letting the future SEP define the client-side change.

```suggestion
A future revision of this specification is expected to upgrade authorization server inclusion of `iss` from **SHOULD** to **MUST**. Implementers are encouraged to emit and validate `iss` now to ease that transition; client rejection behavior will continue to be keyed on `authorization_response_iss_parameter_supported` until that revision defines the upgrade path.
```

Reviewer 2: It's not strictly keyed on that parameter, so slight rewording:
```suggestion
A future revision of this specification is expected to upgrade authorization server inclusion of `iss` from **SHOULD** to **MUST**. Implementers are encouraged to emit and validate `iss` now to ease that transition; client rejection behavior on `iss` absence will continue to be keyed on `authorization_response_iss_parameter_supported` until that revision defines the upgrade path.
```

> If validation fails, the client **MUST NOT** transmit the authorization code to any token endpoint and **MUST** discard the per-request state for that attempt. Clients **MUST NOT** normalize issuer values (case, port, trailing slash, or percent-encoding) before comparison.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After decoding the `iss` value from the `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` response per [RFC 9207 Section 2.4](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9207#section-2.4), clients **MUST NOT** apply scheme or host case folding, default-port elision, trailing-slash, or percent-encoding normalization ([RFC 3986 Sections 6.2.2-6.2.3](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986#section-6.2.2)) before comparison.
```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

This validation applies equally to error responses - on mismatch the client **MUST NOT** act on or display `error`, `error_description`, or `error_uri`.
```

Since, per RFC:

>For error responses, clients MUST NOT assume that the error originates from the intended authorization server.

Authorization servers providing OpenID Connect Discovery 1.0 **MUST** include `code_challenge_methods_supported` in their metadata to ensure MCP compatibility.

### Mix-Up Attacks

An MCP client typically interacts with many authorization servers over its lifetime. An attacker that controls one of those authorization servers may attempt to have the client send it an authorization code or token issued by a different, honest authorization server (a mix-up attack, described in [RFC9207 Section 1](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9207#section-1)).

> [Authorization Response Validation](#authorization-response-validation) mitigates this by binding the response to the authorization server the client recorded before redirecting, so the authorization code cannot be redeemed at an unintended token endpoint.

Reviewer 4: Two small additions: (a) note the residual gap so "cannot be redeemed" is not read as absolute, and (b) pre-empt the "isn't PKCE enough?" question.

```suggestion
[Authorization Response Validation](#authorization-response-validation) mitigates this by binding the response to the authorization server the client recorded before redirecting, so the authorization code cannot be redeemed at an unintended token endpoint. PKCE alone does not prevent this attack because the client transmits the `code_verifier` to the attacker's token endpoint, and resource indicators do not help when the attacker's authorization server is listed in the honest resource server's protected resource metadata ([RFC 9728 Section 7.6](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9728#section-7.6)). This mitigation depends on honest authorization servers emitting `iss`; it provides no protection against an honest server that does not.
```

Reviewer 2: > and resource indicators do not help when the attacker's authorization server is listed in the honest resource server's protected resource metadata 

It isn't necessary for the attacker's AS to be listed in the honest PRM, because if the attacker is posing as the server, the client will never see the honest PRM.  Resource parameters don't help in that configuration for the same reason PKCE doesn't help in that scenario, because the attacker can just replace it while sitting in the middle. 

```suggestion
[Authorization Response Validation](#authorization-response-validation) mitigates this by binding the response to the authorization server the client recorded before redirecting, so the authorization code cannot be redeemed at an unintended token endpoint. PKCE alone does not prevent this attack because the client transmits the `code_verifier` to the attacker's token endpoint.  Resource indicators do not help when the attacker's authorization server is intercepting requests before they hit the honest authorization server. This mitigation depends on honest authorization servers emitting `iss`; it provides no protection against an honest server that does not.
```
